Now let's talk about some recommendations on how to interact with stakeholders.
Here are some approaches to involving stakeholders. Determine
the level of involvement for each stakeholder.
Each stakeholder is different with their own needs and expectations.
Truly understanding their level of involvement will help you
establish and begin to build your relationships.
And how much time can they actually spend with you anyway?
Some stakeholders will need to be informed,
provide regular status reports, and keep them informed of
any decisions that would affect them.
Find out from them how often they want to be informed or receive status reports.
Do not assume everyone is on the same cycle.
Some stakeholders just need to be consulted.
Some stakeholders have knowledge and expertise that may, in fact,
provide most of the information you need in your analysis,
especially end users and business owners,
which would benefit from outcomes of your work.
Some stakeholders will be more like partners.
These may be other members on your team,
other business analysts in your organization, and possibly even
developer teams. You work regularly and closely with them.
Lastly,
decision makers. There are those who may not be that close with
your activities, but will be making key decisions,
especially if they relate to customer deliverables, costs,
budgets, and overall impact to the business.
Here are stakeholder interactions you need for success. Now that you've
identified and are involving stakeholders in your analysis,
you need things from each and every one of them, timely input,
feedback, and information. They need to provide you the
right information at the right time.
This can be very challenging since they are very busy people just like you, so
building a solid relationship where you have their interests at heart will help
greatly. Proactive participation. As you know,
without key stakeholder participation, you can't get your job done.
All that knowledge is tied up in people's heads and you need to pull it out.
If they are not in the room, so to speak, you will produce substandard results.
Be creative and flexible in fitting into their schedules.
Balance business contexts.
In the previous module, we discuss business context,
a single system, you know, somewhat smaller chunks of work,
a business unit that covers a major portion of a
company, and the full enterprise context.
Where is your analysis activities fall?
Be aware of the stakeholder viewpoints that are
myopic and do not take a broader view.
Remember,
there is just one company and you may have to share the
viewpoints and needs of other stakeholders with the
stakeholders you are currently talking to.
Bidirectional communication.
How do you want to communicate with them?
How do you want to be communicated to? Negotiate what makes the best sense to
them and not yourself, if possible. Collaborate with them and determine what
you think might be the best forms of communication.
Each one may have a different way you need to communicate
with. Communication with stakeholders,
the when and the what, figure out when is the best time to communicate daily,
weekly, monthly,
quarterly, or even some random schedule, whatever works
best between you and your stakeholder.
Also, what form of communication works for each stakeholder,
so you need to consider that as well.
Meetings, emails, status reports,
presentations, or a variety and a mix of all of these. I have
seen cases where analysts forced their schedule on content
formats onto the stakeholders.
Please don't do that.
Try and figure out what works best for everyone,
including yourself, but if push comes to shove,
satisfy the desires of the stakeholder. These behaviors exhibit professionalism and contributes to building trust.